---
title: "Why I chose Hugo"
date: 2021-05-08T20:44:16Z
subtitle: "Or why I ditched Jekyll"
image: ""
tags: ["hugo", "jekyll"]
---

This blog is currently powered by [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/), a static site generator built in Go. However this was not my first choice.
Initially I was going to use [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) for the simple reason that I had heard of it before and it is what Github uses to power Github Pages.

Almost immediately I decided that while Jekyll seems fine to use I did not want to be limited to what Github natively offers, and I didn't have to. Github generates the static site and then pushes the static content to the Github Pages 'environment'. This basically means Github will push *any* content to Github Pages including any content not generated by Jekyll. I could use this to manually build my Jekyll static content in a Github Workflow push that content to a branch the Github Pages Workflow listens to and voila I am no longer bound to Github Jekyll while I can still use Github Pages (and Jekyll!)! 

**_So why are you now using Hugo?_**

Well, I tried to update Jekyll to a more current version..

The Jekyll [upgrade manual](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/upgrading/) makes it seem so easy. Just execute `bundle update` or `gem update jekyll`! I wish :smile:!

I spent days going over different aspects of the Ruby ecosystem (that I knew nothing about and still don't know much about), fighting with Bundler and my Gemfile. Wondering why none of the update commands did anything.

After the weekend I was talking to coworkers about my struggles. They asked, why are you using Jekyll? Just use Hugo, we already use it for our internal docs.

So I tried Hugo. And it worked. And I was happy.

And I am happy :wink:

*Note: I'm not blaming Jekyll or Ruby for that matter. I'm sure they are wonderful tools. But I'm not a ruby developer, I don't want to have to learn the intricacies of Ruby to manage a blog.*
